# Filecoin Core Devs Meeting #28 - 2021-10-07

**Meeting Date/Time:** Thursday, October 7th 2021, 16:00 UTC

**Attendance:** Forest (Chainsafe), Fuhon (Soramitsu), Lotus (PL), Venus (IPFSForce), Filecoin Foundation, and Community representatives

## Updates for the week

### Lotus:
* Lotus team has been really busy, we release 1.12.0 for Network Upgrade V14 - Chocolate release
* 1.12.0 RC1 is running on the Calibration net, looking good.
* 1.13.0 - support release for Chocolate upgrade V14 + new features and fixes

### Forest:
* We solved all the consensus issues we had
* We are debugging some other issues we found
* The team is pushing for the main releases, which should happen in 2-3 weeks
* We are adding some last details which we need to have for the final release

### Fuhon:
* We have fixed issues with mining
* We fixed bugs in graphsync, looks good
* We are testing miners with various scenarios
* We should start preparing for an external security audit, once Maxim is back from his vacation

### Venus:
* Venus market component is done
* Working on the Master's program, we have 20 applicants so far
* FIPs work is in progress

### Filecoin Foundation:
* V14 Network upgrade document: https://github.com/filecoin-project/tpm/blob/master/Network Upgrades/V14.md
* FIPs and governance - 
    * We are organizing new management for Forrest and Fuhon, just helping out to the teams
    * We created [FIPs tracker](https://github.com/filecoin-project/FIPs/projects)

## Open Discussions on the call:
* IPFSUnion proposal - Fault period extension to 6 weeks was presented by the team
    * The team believes that adjustment from 2 weeks to 6 weeks would be a good plan forward
* 3 main questions are:
    * Will this be implemented in Network V14?
    * Should we only upgrade only CC sectors?
    * Should we adjust WindowPost penalty fee? - Not an urgent question, but something we should discuss in the weeks to come.
