# Filecoin Core Devs Meeting #36 - 2022-02-10

**Meeting Date/Time:** Thursday, February 10th 2022, 16:00 UTC

**Meeting Recording:** See README

**Attendance:** Forest (Chainsafe), Fuhon (Soramitsu), Venus (IPFSForce), Lotus (Protocol Labs), Filecoin Foundation, and Community representatives

### Updates and Ideas from Filecoin Implementation Teams

*In preparation of our move to hosting two asynchronous Core Devs meetings biweekly, in order to better accomodate global timezones, both February meetings will use formal presentations to organize meeting materials.  Implementation teams are asked to provide all updates, etc., ahead of the meeting, in order to facilitate this new format.* 

*Placeholders for the two optional Core Devs meetings (begin with Core Devs #38) will be sent to all current attendees.  For more information, see the TPM repo README.*

#### Venus
* Preparing final v15 Snapnet testing 
* Finalizing specs and changes to Beneficiary Address FIP 
  * Expecting priority for this FIP in network v17
* Currently testing Venus market 2.0, which may launch with v15
* Working on Venus code refactoring 
#### Fuhon 
* Fuhon miner integration should be complete by EOD.  
* The team plans to join calibnet, and will upgrade to v15 with other implementation teams.
#### Lotus 
* Currently testing in Snapnet and preparing for the mainnet upgrade on 3/1 
* Hosting a Twitter AMA on Thursday, February 17, at 3:30pm PST
#### Forest 
* Two new team members have joined: Hubert Bugaj, and Afri Schoe
* Currently working with Raul and the FVM team to prepare for v15 and actors upgrades

#### Filecoin Foundation 
* There are no outstanding security issues or concerns. 
* The v15 upgrade process is also a testing ground for a new FIPs process.  By the time that v15 goes live, the following will be finalized: 
  * New tags for items in the FIPs Discussion Forum 
    * Core Devs were asked to provide technical 'categories' that they'd like to see technical enhancements/pre-FIP ideas organized into. 
  * Written documentation of the new FIPs process, including pushed changes to FIP0001
* There are currently a lot of open FIP ideas, which could receive more resources in order to be ready for upgrade v17.  For now, however, we anticipate only the FVM FIPs will be incorporated in v16.
* A discussion post was opened around v16 planning: https://github.com/filecoin-project/tpm/discussions/90
